How to write an IGC file
========================

aerofiles has the :class:`aerofiles.igc.Writer` class for writing IGC files.
The first thing you need to do is instantiate it by passing an file-like object
into its constructor::

    with open('sample.igc', 'w') as fp:
        writer = aerofiles.igc.Writer(fp)


Headers
-------

After that you can use the ``writer`` object to write the necessary file
headers::

    writer.write_headers({
        'manufacturer_code': 'XCS',
        'logger_id': 'TBX',
        'date': datetime.date(1987, 2, 24),
        'fix_accuracy': 50,
        'pilot': 'Tobias Bieniek',
        'copilot': 'John Doe',
        'glider_type': 'Duo Discus',
        'glider_id': 'D-KKHH',
        'firmware_version': '2.2',
        'hardware_version': '2',
        'logger_type': 'LXNAVIGATION,LX8000F',
        'gps_receiver': 'uBLOX LEA-4S-2,16,max9000m',
        'pressure_sensor': 'INTERSEMA,MS5534A,max10000m',
        'competition_id': '2H',
        'competition_class': 'Doubleseater',
    })

Note that the :meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_headers` method will take care
of writing the headers in the right order and it will alert you if you failed
to pass a mandatory header. Those mandatory headers that are allowed to be
blank will be written without value if you don't specify any values.

The result of the call above is the following lines being written to the
``sample.igc`` file::

    AXCSTBX
    HFDTE870224
    HFFXA050
    HFPLTPILOTINCHARGE:Tobias Bieniek
    HFCM2CREW2:John Doe
    HFGTYGLIDERTYPE:Duo Discus
    HFGIDGLIDERID:D-KKHH
    HFDTM100GPSDATUM:WGS-1984
    HFRFWFIRMWAREVERSION:2.2
    HFRHWHARDWAREVERSION:2
    HFFTYFRTYPE:LXNAVIGATION,LX8000F
    HFGPSuBLOX LEA-4S-2,16,max9000m
    HFPRSPRESSALTSENSOR:INTERSEMA,MS5534A,max10000m
    HFCIDCOMPETITIONID:2H
    HFCCLCOMPETITIONCLASS:Doubleseater

Next you might want to define what extensions your GPS fix records will use.
Make sure that you specify at least the highly recommended ``FXA`` extension as
specified in the official IGC file specification. You can add the extensions
description by using the :meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_fix_extensions`
method::

    writer.write_fix_extensions([('FXA', 3), ('SIU', 2), ('ENL', 3)])

This will result in the following line being written::

    I033638FXA3940SIU4143ENL

There is also a :meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_k_record_extensions` method
if you are planning to use K records with extensions.


Task
----

Following the headers should be the task declaration. There are two main
methods for writing that: :meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_task_metadata`
and :meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_task_points`. The first method writes
the task declaration metadata like date and time of declaration, the intended
date of the flight, the task id and the number of turnpoints in the declared
task. The second method is used to write the task points in the specified
order::

    writer.write_task_metadata(
        datetime.datetime(2014, 4, 13, 12, 53, 02),
        task_number=42,
        turnpoints=3,
    )

    writer.write_task_points([
        (None, None, 'TAKEOFF'),
        (51.40375, 6.41275, 'START'),
        (50.38210, 8.82105, 'TURN 1'),
        (50.59045, 7.03555, 'TURN 2', 0, 32.5, 0, 180),
        (51.40375, 6.41275, 'FINISH'),
        (None, None, 'LANDING'),
    ])

These calls will write the following lines to the ``sample.igc`` file::

    C140413125302000000004203
    C0000000N00000000ETAKEOFF
    C5124225N00624765ESTART
    C5022926N00849263ETURN 1
    C5035427N00702133E00000000032500000000180000TURN 2
    C5124225N00624765EFINISH
    C0000000N00000000ELANDING


Security Signature
------------------

The IGC file specification is using a security signature for authenticity
verification. This signature is generated by the flight recorder and should be
verifiable be an external tool. If you are able to generate such a signature
according to the specification then you can use the
:meth:`~aerofiles.igc.Writer.write_security` method to append it to the file::

    writer.write_security('ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ')

will write

::

    GABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

while using multiple lines for the security signature if it is longer than 75
bytes.
